---
layout: page
title: Avalara AvaTax REST API
date: 2012-05-21 13:58
author: anya.stettler
comments: true
categories: []
---
The Avalara AvaTax REST API is a <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer" target="_blank">RESTful</a> web service exposed over the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Https" target="_blank">HTTPS</a> protocol.

Clients can access the API using any programming language that supports the HTTP and the SSL protocols. The API is also accessible using command-line tools such as <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CURL" target="_blank">cURL</a>.

The API exposes the following Resources:
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Resource Name</th>
<th>Resource URI Component</th>
<th>Request Method</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><a title="Address Validation" href="http://developer.avalara.com/api-docs/rest/address-validation" target="_blank">address/validate</a></td>
<td>address/validate</td>
<td>GET</td>
<td>Validates a single provided address. Returns a single validated address if possible, otherwise returns an error.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a title="tax/get (GET)" href="/api-docs/rest/resources/tax/get/" target="_blank">tax</a></td>
<td>/tax/&lt;identifier&gt;/get</td>
<td>GET</td>
<td>Calculates sales tax based upon a geographic (latitude/longitude) identifier for a provided sales amount.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="/api-docs/rest/tax/post/" target="_blank">tax</a></td>
<td>/tax/get</td>
<td>POST</td>
<td>Calculates sales tax for a set of invoice items, can save transaction record to AvaTax system depending on parameters.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a title="cancel" href="/api-docs/rest/resources/tax/cancel/" target="_blank">tax/cancel</a></td>
<td>/tax/cancel</td>
<td>POST</td>
<td>Voids or deletes a single specified document that exists on the AvaTax system.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h2>Accessing Resources</h2>
Clients access Resources exposed by the API using the following general URI format, described below by breaking the URI into components:
[code]https://&lt;hostname&gt;/&lt;api-version&gt;/&lt;resource-uri&gt;[?&lt;request-parameters&gt;][/code]
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>URI Component</th>
<th>Value</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>hostname</td>
<td>development.avalara.net (for development accounts only)
avatax.avalara.net (for production accounts only)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>api-version</td>
<td>1.0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>resource-uri</td>
<td>The URI Component of the Resource to access (from the table above)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>request-parameters</td>
<td>Request parameters (for GET request methods only) specific to the resource being accessed.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h4>Complete URI format:</h4>
For development accounts:
[code]https://development.avalara.net/1.0/&lt;resource-uri&gt;[?&lt;request-parameters&gt;][/code]
For production accounts:
[code]https://avatax.avalara.net/1.0/&lt;resource-uri&gt;[?&lt;request-parameters&gt;][/code]
<h3>Required Request Headers</h3>
[code]Authorization Basic &lt;Base64(credential)&gt;[/code]
where &lt;Base64(credential)&gt; is the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base64">Base64</a>-encoded credential (account number and license key, delimited with the colon (:) character, as specified by HTTP <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication">basic access authentication</a>)
<h3>Common Request Format</h3>
A call to the Tax Services REST API will consist of the appropriate HTTP Verb and a URL in the following form:

[code][HTTP verb] /[API version number]/[resource](/identifier)/[operation](.[format])[/code]
Note: parenthesis “( )” denote content that may not be required depending on the resource and operation.
<h3>Request Segments</h3>
<h4>API Version Number</h4>
Each Tax Services API operation will be qualified with its respective version number. The version will be represented by the form “[<em>major version #</em>].[<em>minor version #</em>]”.

Resource

The Resource segment specifies the resource type being used for the operation.

Identifier

The Identifier segment specifies the specific resource to operate on, when defined.

Operation

The Operation segment specifies the supported operation on the resource to call.

Format

The message format of any API call may be qualified by a content type. Both JSON and XML content types are supported. This qualifier will override that of any supplied by the Content-Type HTTP header. The format extensions supported are: text, xml, json, and jsonp.
<h3>Common Response Format</h3>
Each operation will return a field, ResultCode, indicating the success of the operation. If the operation fails a collection of messages that detail the failure will be returned in addition to the non-success ResultCode value. The following properties are common to each response. More severe result codes will correspond with a non-successful HTTP response (e.g 500).
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Field</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Format</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td valign="top">ResultCode</td>
<td valign="top">Result code of operation</td>
<td valign="top">SeverityLevel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">Messages</td>
<td valign="top">One or more messages describing an operation failure. Note: This field is only present if the response reports a non-success ResultCode value.</td>
<td valign="top">Message[]</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3>Severity Level</h3>
A severity level may consist one of any of the following values.
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Value</th>
<th>HTTP Status</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td valign="top">Success</td>
<td valign="top">200</td>
<td valign="top">Operation was successful</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">Warning</td>
<td valign="top">200</td>
<td valign="top">Operation was otherwise successful, but data used to generate response may be missing or incorrect</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">Error</td>
<td valign="top">400</td>
<td valign="top">Operation failed for one or more reasons described in messages collection</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">Exception</td>
<td valign="top">500</td>
<td valign="top">Operation failed to due an unknown error</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3>Message</h3>
Message provides a description of an error or warning.
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Field</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Format</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td valign="top">Summary</td>
<td valign="top">The message summary in short form</td>
<td valign="top">String</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">Details</td>
<td valign="top">Description of the error or warning</td>
<td valign="top">String</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">RefersTo</td>
<td valign="top">The data used during the request that caused the message to be generated</td>
<td valign="top">String</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">Severity</td>
<td valign="top">Classifies severity of message</td>
<td valign="top">SeverityLevel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">Source</td>
<td valign="top">The internal location that generated the message</td>
<td valign="top">String</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3>Examples</h3>
Response (JSON)
[code]{
"ResultCode": "Error",
"Messages":
[
{
"Summary": "Unknown country name or code (ZZ)",
"Details": "ZZ is not a known country name or code.",
"RefersTo": "Addresses[0]",
"Severity": "Error",
"Source": "Avalara.AvaTax.Services.Tax"
}
]
}[/code]
Response (XML)
[code]&lt;TaxCalcWidgetResult&gt;
&lt;ResultCode&gt;Error&lt;/ResultCode&gt;
&lt;Messages&gt;
&lt;Message&gt;
&lt;Summary&gt;Unknown country name or code (ZZ)&lt;/Summary&gt;
&lt;Details&gt;ZZ is not a known country name or code.&lt;/Details&gt;
&lt;RefersTo&gt;Addresses[0]&lt;/RefersTo&gt;
&lt;Severity&gt;Error&lt;/Severity&gt;
&lt;Source&gt;Avalara.AvaTax.Services.Tax&lt;/Source&gt;
&lt;/Message&gt;&lt;/Messages&gt;
&lt;/TaxCalcWidgetResult&gt;[/code]
