---
layout: page
title: oAuth
date: 2012-11-12 19:31
author: anya.stettler
comments: true
categories: []
---
This guide introduces and documents Avalara’s Authorization Service API for use with Avalara products and customers. The guide provides developer integration documentation on the use of end points, and the parameters and response formats for available operations. Avalara Authorization Services are made available via the HTTP protocol following the <a href="http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-22">OAuth Version 2 Draft 22</a> as a guide.
<h4>Best Practices</h4>
Authorization Lifecycle:
<ul>
	<li>A new partner is granted an account. They must register as a partner through the Admin Console UI (logged in as account admin: Settings&gt;Authorization Options&gt;View Partner Registration). This will grant the partner a ClientId and Secret. As a partner, Keep your client_id and client_secret secure; it is a set of credentials specific to authorization.</li>
	<li>For the partner registration to be activated, an Avalara representative must access the partner account and approve the registration request. Please note: All authorization and self grant requests fail until the registration is approved. As a result, do not request authorizations of Avalara customers until your registration is approved.</li>
	<li>Once the partner registration is approved, the ClientId and Secret are active, and can be used to request authorization from a customer account with the <a title="Authorize" href="http://developer.avalara.com/api-docs/oauth/authorize/">oauth/authorize</a> operation. This will direct the customer to a webpage where they should log in with the Company User access role to approve the authorization. Note that the company user scope is limited to a single company - as such, the authorization granted to the partner client is limited to the corresponding company only. This operation will return an authorization code. Only request one authorization from an Avalara customer unless the previous authorization has been denied, revoked, or the access token is lost.</li>
	<li>The authorization code can be used by the partner client to call the <a title="Access Token" href="http://developer.avalara.com/api-docs/oauth/access-token/">oauth/access_token</a> to generate an access token. The authorization token is a credential and must be protected as its use by unknown parties can cause harm to the authorizing customer. Use an access token until it returns unsuccessfully.</li>
	<li>Refresh an access token when the associated access token is no longer responding and has not been revoked by using the <a title="Access Token" href="http://developer.avalara.com/api-docs/oauth/access-token/">oauth/access_token</a> operation again - this time providing the refresh token provided by the previous successful <a title="Access Token" href="http://developer.avalara.com/api-docs/oauth/access-token/">oauth/access_token</a> use.</li>
	<li>A customer or partner can revoke an authorization code or access token at any time with <a title="Revoke" href="http://developer.avalara.com/api-docs/oauth/revoke/">oauth/revoke</a>. If this is done, and the partner client needs to request access the customer account again, the operation <a title="Authorize" href="http://developer.avalara.com/api-docs/oauth/authorize/">oauth/authorize</a> should be used (and the authorization process should proceed from there).</li>
</ul>
Some additional notes:
<ul>
	<li>ClientID and Secret (along with partner registration) are platform specific, i.e. different for development and production.</li>
	<li>An access token provides Company User level access only.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Public End Points</h3>
The available API operations consist of:
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Resource/Operation</th>
<th>HTTP Verb</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><a title="Authorize" href="http://developer.avalara.com/api-docs/oauth/authorize/">oauth/authorize</a></td>
<td>GET</td>
<td>Must be made via HTTP in a web browser client - used by client to request access to an Avalara customer account. Returns an authorization code.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a title="Access Token" href="http://developer.avalara.com/api-docs/oauth/access-token/">oauth/access_token</a></td>
<td>POST</td>
<td>One of two functions:
<ul>
	<li>Converts an authorization code into an access token</li>
	<li>Issues new access token using refresh token</li>
</ul>
Returns an access token.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a title="Generate Token" href="http://developer.avalara.com/api-docs/oauth/generate-token/">oauth/generate_token</a></td>
<td>GET, POST</td>
<td>Allows a partner to combine the oauth/authorize and oauth/access_token operations to create a self-granted authorization code. Requires credentials to be passed in the parameters of the call.
Note that this operation is only available to registered partners - if a non-partner customer would like to generate a self-granted access token, there is a "Self Grant" interface to do this through the Admin Console UI.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a title="Revoke" href="http://developer.avalara.com/api-docs/oauth/revoke/">oauth/revoke</a></td>
<td>POST</td>
<td>Revokes everything issued during the lifetime of an authorization lifecycle.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
